FAIZAN AZHAR
+923435391151 | faziazhar1@@gmail.com | GitHub | LinkedIn
PROFILE
I am a dedicated software developer who loves creating high-quality products in competitive environments. I'm committed
to innovation and always seeking new challenges and opportunities.
EXPERIENCE
Senior Software Engineer (Full Stack) & Technical Consultant - Tekenable ltd Remote, Ireland Feb 2022 - Present
• Successfully delivered and led the development and support for EPassport ERA: Understanding the requirements
from the client, creating user stories, and presenting weekly demos of the product to clients.
• Develop and manage Power Apps solutions pipelines for different environments
• Develop custom connectors in C# for Power Apps
• Develop the media stream service for ERA.
• Develop the third-party endpoints for media broadcasting for France and the UK.
• Develop a horse pedigree for 5 levels using PCF in React with React Query.
• Deploy CI/CD pipelines for Azure Functions and PCF
• Develop a POC (chat with docs ) that leads to a successful client
(Azure Open AI, Azure Document Intelligence, Azure Cognitive Search, React, Fast Api,.Net,.NetCore, Python, Angular,
Power Apps, React, Azure, DevOps, Docker)
Full-Stack Developer - AlphaSquad Onsite, Islamabad Jan 2020 - Sep 2020
Developed and deployed a major Online Education System for a Saudi client project. Worked with modern technologies.
(Node.js, React, React Native, Serverless, GraphQL, Firebase)
Full-Stack Developer – Code Breakers Remote, USA Oct 2020 – Jan 2022
• Develop the online hotel management system.
• Develop the online taxi system.
(Node.js, React, React Native, Google Maps, Firebase)
Open-Source Contribution
SQL Query Conversion to Sentence using Hugging Face
Built a custom control for Dynamics 365 that converts SQL queries into natural language using the Hugging Face model.
(Dynamics 365 Pcf Control React, FastAPI, Hugging Face, Docker).
CERTIFICATIONS
DP-100: Azure Data Scientist Associate – Microsoft (Jan 2025 – Present)
AI-102: Designing and Implementing a Microsoft Azure AI Solution – Microsoft (Jun 2023 – Present)
AI-900: Microsoft Azure AI Fundamentals – Microsoft (Jul 2023 – Present)
PL-900: Microsoft Power Platform Fundamentals – Microsoft (Aug 2023 – Present) AZ900: Microsoft Azure Fundamentals – Microsoft (Jul 2023 – Present)
Internship
National Centre for Cyber Security, Air University, Islamabad May 2020 – Jul 2020
Analyzed malware using IDA Pro and Ghidra to examine and understand malicious executable files.
(IDA Pro, Ghidra, Malware Analysis)
Machine Learning – Air University Center of Smart Data Islamabad Sep 2019 – Jul 2020
Trained machine learning models to identify drug-drug interactions (DDIs) in biomedical texts. Achieved an F1-score of 73%,
comparable to leading research in the domain.
(Python, ML, NLP)
EDUCATION
Air University Islamabad. 2017 – 2020
Bachelor of Engineering in Software Engineering CGPA: 3.01
Final Year Project
Telecommute Churn Prediction Model Islamabad4 Jan 2020
• Developed using Python and Django with 95% accuracy in predicting churn. Designed the front-end interface using HTML
and CSS. (Python, Django, HTML, CSS)
Academic Projects
• Built a scientific calculator in C++.
• Developed an eBay web scraper using C#.
• Created Handy Crew and Hotel Management System using the MEAN stack.
• Implemented a heart attack prediction model in Python. Created a customer churn prediction model in Python.
• Twitter (X) Sentiment analysis R